---
layout: post
title: My Process
---

After many failed attempts at photogrammetry, I've arrived at a process (which is still evolving) that I can share.
<br>
First: Pick a good tool to shoot photographs with. A good camera is a one that is always with you, so something nice and compact that you can carry around. A camera that is focusses rapidly, and shoots quickly is a one that will save you time as you take your photos. A wide lens is also reccommended, as long as it doesn't suffer from any sort of distortion. Wider the lens, the more detail you can capture in one shot, which will save you from having to take too many photos.
<br>
Second: It's important to remember that the quality of photos is what will define the outcome. Post-processing yields minimal improvements and is not time efficient. The better the quality of photos, the better the result. In this case, the qualities that define good traditional photography are the ones you want to avoid. Break every rule of good aesthetic photography. No depth-of-field, even lighting, no shadows or highlights. Put yourself in the shoes of a person tasked with documenting a scene of crime. Every detail, no matter how small has to be captured. You are aiming for accuracy and detail, not artistic capability.
<br>
Third: Track the sun and the clouds. They will either make, or break your shoot. Strong sunlight means high contrast situations, where the lit areas are too bright, and the shadows too dark. Your camera will not be able to capture all the detail. Shooting against the sun will lead to lens flares and the subsequent shadows on the object will render your image useless. Even, diffused lighting, such as the one on overcast days are ideal. Early mornings, and sunsets are the best times to capture objects. 
<br>
Fourth: Ensure that every photo you take has atleast 60% overlap. Don't get clever or lazy. The more photos you take, from as many different angles as possible, the better resolved your final 3D model will turn out. Don't try and be 'efficient', try to work on getting the result you want from the first try. Take a round of photos from far, and then take another round of photos up close. Cover as many angles as you can. Top, bottom, left, right, everything. The more angles you cover, the more data the software has to work with. Greater the overlap, the greater the points the computer can track to match photos and create pairs. 