---
layout: post
title: The Amateurs Guide to PhotoScan
---

Here's the beginner guide to using PhotoScan to get some sort of 3D mesh.

Step 1: Open PhotoScan.

Step 2: Select your photos, and drag them into PhotoScan. Specifically, to the bar on the left hand side.

Step 3: Go to the Workflow tab on top, and select Align Photos. You will be presented with multiple levels for alignment. Lowest - Highest. Depending on your computers performance, select the appropriate option. I'd recommend Medium if you want an optimal blend of performance and time taken to render.

Step 4: Once the alignment is complete, you will be presented with a sparse cloud. This is when you will see whether you've taken good photos or not.

Step 5: If you're happy with what you see, you may proceed. If not, then try arranging the photos, masking them, and try again. Worst case scenario, you'll have to go shoot once again. 

Step 6: If you're satisfied with what you see then, proceed to the next option in the Workflow tab. Build Dense Cloud. Again, choose whichever option suits your system. I usually choose Low, and it does a good enough job. 

Step 7: Now that you have a Dense Cloud (you can see the Dense Cloud visually by toggling the various view options in the toolbar), you can proceed to build a mesh. Select the Build Mesh option and wait for that to finish.

Step 8: After the mesh is built, choose the Decimate option in Tools>Mesh to get the required settings of your choice. 

Step 9: After you've selected the number of faces you desire, you can map the texture on to the mesh. Select the Build Mesh option in Workflow.

Step 10: I hope you kept saving the file as you went along. Now that you can see the ready model in front of you, export to any format you see fit. 